in this video let us discuss about Recursion
Firstly what is Recursion The process in which a
function calls itself is called Recursion
See here this function fun is calling itself
so This is an example of Recursion
It is a widely used method for solving problems
But there are some rules to be followed while using
the recursion so let us see the basic rules of Recursion
Firstly the function should call itself See here function
Fun is calling function fun its
definition so Fun
is Recursive function Another very important rule of
Recursion is there should be a base case definition
That is if we write a recursive function like this
there is a chance of infinite number of calls
and programme crash So we must define a base case
for the function call comes to an end
This case or condition is called the base case In
Recursion for example supposed here N is equal to
five
We can define base case as n equal to
one
Then function of five is called
It will call function of four then function of three
then function of two and function of one and then
it will stop calling itself so that is base case
The next rule is that the Recursive call should
align towards the base case
That is see this function we have base case n
equal to one and recursive call is function of
n minus one
So the function calls will be four n equal to
four n equal to three n equal to two and
n equal to one
So it is aligning towards n equal to one which
is the base case
And what if the recursive call was function of n
plus one Then the function calls will be if n equal
to 678910 etc etc
It will never reach the base case and it will
never end
So the programme will crash
So the Recursion call should align towards the base case
So these are the basic rules of recursion
So recursion is a process for the function calls
itself and the basic rules of Recursion are the function
should call itself
And there should be a base case defined where the
function will stop calling itself and the Recursion call should
align towards the base case in order to avoid
infinite function calling
So in the next video let us understand how the
Ricursive function works using the factorial problem.